## BME280 – Data sheet

```
Document revision 1. 24
Document release date February 2024
Document number BST-BME280-DS00 1 - 24
Sales Part Number (SPN) 0 273 141 185
Notes Data and descriptions in this document are subject to change without
notice. Product photos and pictures are for illustration purposes only
and may differ from the real product appearance
```
# BME

# Combined humidity and pressure sensor


**BME**

**Digital humidity, pressure and temperature sensor**

**Key features**

- Package 2.5 mm x 2.5 mm x 0.93 mm metal lid LGA
- Digital interface I²C (up to 3.4 MHz) and SPI (3 and 4 wire, up to 10 MHz)
- Supply voltage VDD main supply voltage range: 1.71 V to 3.6 V
    VDDIO interface voltage range: 1.2 V to 3.6 V
- Current consumption 1.8 μA @ 1 Hz humidity and temperature
    2.8 μA @ 1 Hz pressure and temperature
    3.6 μA @ 1 Hz humidity, pressure and temperature
    0.1 μA in sleep mode
- Operating range -40...+85 °C, 0...100 % rel. humidity, 300...1100 hPa
- Humidity sensor and pressure sensor can be independently enabled / disabled
- Register and performance compatible to Bosch Sensortec BMP280 digital pressure sensor
- RoHS compliant, halogen-free, MSL

**Key parameters for humidity sensor**

- Response time (𝜏𝜏63%) 1 s
- Accuracy tolerance ±3 % relative humidity
- Hysteresis ±1% relative humidity

**Key parameters for pressure sensor**

- RMS Noise 0.2 Pa, equiv. to 1.7 cm
- Offset temperature coefficient ±1.5 Pa/K, equiv. to ±12.6 cm at 1 °C temperature change

**Typical application**

- Context awareness, e.g. skin detection, room change detection
- Fitness monitoring / well-being
    - Warning regarding dryness or high temperatures
    - Measurement of volume and air flow
- Home automation control
    - control heating, venting, air conditioning (HVAC)
- Internet of things
- GPS enhancement (e.g. time-to-first-fix improvement, dead reckoning, slope detection)
- Indoor navigation (change of floor detection, elevator detection)
- Outdoor navigation, leisure and sports applications
- Weather forecast
- Vertical velocity indication (rise/sink speed)

**Target devices**

- Handsets such as mobile phones, tablet PCs, GPS devices
- Navigation systems
- Gaming, e.g flying toys
- Camera (DSC, video)
- Home weather stations
- Flying toys
- Watches


**General Description**

The BME280 is as combined digital humidity, pressure and temperature sensor based on proven
sensing principles. The sensor module is housed in an extremely compact metal-lid LGA package with
a footprint of only 2.5 × 2.5 mm² with a height of 0.93 mm. Its small dimensions and its low power
consumption allow the implementation in battery driven devices such as handsets, GPS modules or
watches. The BME280 is register and performance compatible to the Bosch Sensortec BMP280 digital
pressure sensor (see chapter 5.2 for details).

The BME280 achieves high performance in all applications requiring humidity and pressure
measurement. These emerging applications of home automation control, in-door navigation, fitness as
well as GPS refinement require a high accuracy and a low TCO at the same time.

The humidity sensor provides an extremely fast response time for fast context awareness applications
and high overall accuracy over a wide temperature range.

The pressure sensor is an absolute barometric pressure sensor with extremely high accuracy and
resolution and drastically lower noise than the Bosch Sensortec BMP180.

The integrated temperature sensor has been optimized for lowest noise and highest resolution. Its
output is used for temperature compensation of the pressure and humidity sensors and can also be
used for estimation of the ambient temperature.

The sensor provides both SPI and I²C interfaces and can be supplied using 1.71 to 3.6 V for the
sensor supply VDD and 1.2 to 3.6 V for the interface supply VDDIO. Measurements can be triggered by
the host or performed in regular intervals. When the sensor is disabled, current consumption drops to
0.1 μA.

BME280 can be operated in three power modes (see chapter 3.3):

- sleep mode
- normal mode
- forced mode

In order to tailor data rate, noise, response time and current consumption to the needs of the user, a
variety of oversampling modes, filter modes and data rates can be selected.

Please contact your regional Bosch Sensortec partner for more information about software packages.


## Index of Contents




- 1. Specification ......................................................................................................................................
   - 1.1 General electrical specification
   - 1.2 Humidity parameter specification
   - 1.3 Pressure sensor specification..................................................................................................
   - 1.4 Temperature sensor specification
- 2. Absolute maximum ratings
- 3. Functional description
   - 3.1 Block diagram
   - 3.2 Power management
   - 3.3 Sensor modes..........................................................................................................................
      - 3.3.1 Sensor mode transitions
      - 3.3.2 Sleep mode
      - 3.3.3 Forced mode
      - 3.3.4 Normal mode
   - 3.4 Measurement flow
      - 3.4.1 Humidity measurement
      - 3.4.2 Pressure measurement
      - 3.4.3 Temperature measurement
      - 3.4.4 IIR filter....................................................................................................................
   - 3.5 Recommended modes of operation
      - 3.5.1 Weather monitoring
      - 3.5.2 Humidity sensing
      - 3.5.3 Indoor navigation
      - 3.5.4 Gaming
   - 3.6 Noise
- 4. Data readout
   - 4.1 Data register shadowing
   - 4.2 Output compensation
      - 4.2.1 Computational requirements
      - 4.2.2 Trimming parameter readout
      - 4.2.3 Compensation formulas
- 5. Global memory map and register description
   - 5.1 General remarks
   - 5.2 Register compatibility to BMP280............................................................................................
   - 5.3 Memory map
   - 5.4 Register description
      - 5.4.1 Register 0xD0 “id”
      - 5.4.2 Register 0xE0 “reset”
      - 5.4.3 Register 0xF2 “ctrl_hum”
      - 5.4.4 Register 0xF3 “status”
      - 5.4.5 Register 0xF4 “ctrl_meas”
      - 5.4.6 Register 0xF5 “config”
      - 5.4.7 Register 0xF7...0xF9 “press” (_msb, _lsb, _xlsb)
      - 5.4.8 Register 0xFA...0xFC “temp” (_msb, _lsb, _xlsb)
      - 5.4.9 Register 0xFD...0xFE “hum” (_msb, _lsb)
- 6. Digital interfaces
   - 6.1 Interface selection
   - 6.2 I²C Interface
      - 6.2.1 I²C write...................................................................................................................
      - 6.2.2 I²C read
   - 6.3 SPI interface
      - 6.3.1 SPI write..................................................................................................................
      - 6.3.2 SPI read
   - 6.4 Interface parameter specification
      - 6.4.1 General interface parameters
      - 6.4.2 I²C timings
      - 6.4.3 SPI timings
- 7. Pin-out and connection diagram
   - 7.1 Pin-out
   - 7.2 Connection diagram I^2 C...........................................................................................................
   - 7.3 Connection diagram 4-wire SPI
   - 7.4 Connection diagram 3-wire SPI
   - 7.5 Package dimensions
   - 7.6 Landing pattern recommendation
   - 7.7 Marking
      - 7.7.1 Mass production devices
      - 7.7.2 Engineering samples
   - 7.8 Soldering guidelines and reconditioning recommendations
   - 7.9 Reconditioning Procedure
   - 7.10 Tape and reel specification
      - 7.10.1 Dimensions
      - 7.10.2 Orientation within the reel
   - 7.11 Mounting and assembly recommendations
   - 7.12 Environmental safety
      - 7.12.1 RoHS
      - 7.12.2 Halogen content
      - 7.12.3 Internal package structure
- 8. Appendix A: Alternative compensation formulas
   - 8.1 Compensation formulas in double precision floating point
   - 8.2 Pressure compensation in 32 bit fixed point
- 9. Appendix B: Measurement time and current calculation
   - 9.1 Measurement time
   - 9.2 Measurement rate in forced mode
   - 9.3 Measurement rate in normal mode..........................................................................................
   - 9.4 Response time using IIR filter
   - 9.5 Current consumption
- 10. Self test
   - 10.1 Self-test flow
   - 10.2 Function return codes
   - 10.3 Usage
      - 10.3.1 File and function pointer integration
      - 10.3.2 Function call
      - 10.3.3 Test time and interface requirements
   - 10.4 Function explanation
      - 10.4.1 Communication test
      - 10.4.2 Bond wire test
      - 10.4.3 Measurement plausibility test
   - 10.5 Sample read, write and delay function
- 11. Legal disclaimer
   - 11.1 Engineering samples
   - 11.2 Product use..............................................................................................................................
   - 11.3 Application examples and hints
- 12. Document history and modification


## 1. Specification ......................................................................................................................................

If not stated otherwise,

- All values are valid over the full voltage range
- All minimum/maximum values are given for the full accuracy temperature range
- Minimum/maximum values of drifts, offsets and temperature coefficients are ±3σ values over
    lifetime
- Typical values of drifts, offsets and temperature coefficients are ±1σ values over lifetime
- Typical values of currents and state machine timings are determined at 25 °C
- Minimum/maximum values of currents are determined using corner lots over complete
    temperature range
- Minimum/maximum values of state machine timings are determined using corner lots over
    0...+65 °C temperature range

The specification tables are split into humidity, pressure, and temperature part of BME280.

### 1.1 General electrical specification

Table 1: Electrical parameter specification

```
Parameter Symbol Condition Min Typ Max Unit
Supply Voltage
Internal Domains
```
```
VDD ripple max. 50 mVpp 1.71 1.8 3.6 V
```
```
Supply Voltage
I/O Domain
```
##### VDDIO 1.2 1.8 3.6 V

```
Sleep current IDDSL
0.1 0.3 μA
```
```
Standby current
(inactive period of
normal mode)
```
##### IDDSB

```
0.2 0.5 μA
```
```
Current during
humidity
measurement
```
```
IDDH Max value at 85 °C 340 μA
```
```
Current during
pressure
measurement
```
```
IDDP Max value at -40 °C 714 μA
```
```
Current during
temperature
measurement
```
```
IDDT Max value at 85 °C 350 μA
```
```
Start-up time tstartup Time to first
communication after
both VDD > 1.58 V
and VDDIO > 0.65 V
```
```
2 ms
```
```
Power supply
rejection ratio (DC)
```
```
PSRR full VDD range ±0.
±
```
##### %RH/V

```
Pa/V
```
```
Standby time
accuracy
```
```
Δtstandby ±5 ±25 %
```

### 1.2 Humidity parameter specification

Table 2: Humidity parameter specification

```
Parameter Symbol Condition Min Typ Max Unit
```
```
Operating range^1 RH For temperatures
< 0 °C and > 60 °C
see Figure 1
```
- (^40 25 85) °C
(^0  100) %RH
Supply current IDD,H 1 Hz forced mode,
humidity and
temperature
1.8 2.8 μA
Absolute accuracy
tolerance

##### AH 20...80 %RH,

```
25 °C, including
hysteresis
```
(^) ±3 (^) %RH
Hysteresis^2 HH 10  90  10 %RH,
25 °C

##### ±1 %RH

```
Nonlinearity^3 NLH 10 90 %RH, 25 °C 1 %RH
```
```
Response time to
complete 63% of step^4
```
```
𝜏𝜏63% 90 0 or 090 %RH,
25°C
```
```
1 s
```
```
Resolution RH 0.00 8 %RH
```
```
Noise in humidity (RMS) NH Highest oversampling,
see chapter 3.
```
##### 0.02 %RH

```
Long term stability ∆Hstab 10...90 %RH, 25 °C 0.5 %RH/
year
```
(^1) When exceeding the operating range (e.g. for soldering), humidity sensing performance is temporarily degraded and
reconditioning is recommended as described in section 2 7.8. Operating range only for non-condensing environment.
For hysteresis measurement the sequence 10 30  50  70  90  70  50  30 10 %RH is used. The hysteresis is defined as
the difference between measurements of the humidity up / down branch and the averaged curve of both branches 3
Non-linear contributions to the sensor data are corrected during the calculation of the relative humidity by the compensation
formulas described in section 4.2.3 4.
The air-flow in direction to the vent-hole of the device has to be dimensioned in a way that a sufficient air exchange inside to
outside will be possible. To observe effects on the response time-scale of the device an air-flow velocity of approx. 1 m/s is
needed.


```
100
```
```
80
```
```
60
```
```
20
```
```
0
```
```
40
Relative humidity [%]
```
```
Temperature [°C]
```
```
-40 -20 0 20 40 60 80
```
Figure 1: humidity sensor operating range

### 1.3 Pressure sensor specification..................................................................................................

Table 3: Pressure parameter specification

**Parameter** (^) **Symbol Condition Min Typ Max Unit**
Operating temperature
range
TA operational -40 25 +85 °C
full accuracy 0 +
Operating pressure
range
P full accuracy 300 1100 hPa
Supply current (^) IDD,LP 1 Hz forced mode,
pressure and
temperature, lowest
power
2.8 4.2 μA


```
Temperature coefficient
of offset^5
```
```
TCOP 25... 65 °C, 900 hPa ±1.5 Pa/K
```
```
±12.6 cm/K
```
```
Absolute accuracy
pressure
```
```
APext 300.. 1100 hPa
-20... 0 °C
```
```
±1. 7 hPa
```
```
AP,full 300... 1100 hPa
0... 65 °C
```
```
±1. 0 hPa
```
```
AP 1100... 1250 hPa
25... 40 °C
```
```
±1.5 hPa
```
```
Relative accuracy
pressure
VDD = 3.3V
```
```
Arel 700 ... 900hPa
25... 40 °C
```
```
±0.12 hPa
```
```
Resolution of
pressure output data
```
```
RP Highest oversampling 0.18 Pa
```
```
Noise in pressure NP,fullBW Full bandwidth,
highest oversampling
See chapter 3.
```
```
1.3 Pa
```
```
11 cm
```
```
NP,filtered Reduced bandwidth,
highest oversampling
See chapter 3.
```
```
0.2 Pa
```
```
1.7 cm
```
```
Solder drift Minimum solder height
50μm
```
```
-0.5 +2.0 hPa
```
```
Long term stability^6 ∆Pstab per year ±1.0 hPa
```
```
Possible sampling rate fsample_P Lowest oversampling,
see chapter 9.
```
```
157 182 Hz
```
### 1.4 Temperature sensor specification

Table 4: Temperature parameter specification

```
Parameter Symbol Condition Min Typ Max Unit
```
```
Operating range T Operational -40 25 85 °C
```
Full accuracy (^0  65) °C
Supply current IDD,T 1 Hz forced mode,
temperature
measurement only
1.0 μA

##### AT,25 25 °C ±0.5 °C

(^5) When changing temperature by e.g. 10 °C at constant pressure / altitude, the measured pressure / altitude will change by (10 ×
TCOP).
(^6) Long term stability is specified in the full accuracy operating pressure range 0 ... 65 °C


```
Absolute accuracy
temperature^7
```
```
AT,full 0...65 °C ±0.5 °C
```
```
AT,ext^8 -20 .... 0 °C ±1.25 °C
```
```
AT,ext^9 -^40 ... -^20 °C^ ±1.5 °C
```
```
Output resolution RT API output resolution 0.01 °C
```
```
RMS noise NT Lowest oversampling 0.005 °C
```
(^7) Temperature measured by the internal temperature sensor. This temperature value depends on the PCB temperature, sensor
element self 8 -heating and ambient temperature and is typically above ambient temperature.
Target values & not guaranteed
(^9) Target values & not guaranteed


## 2. Absolute maximum ratings

The absolute maximum ratings are determined over complete temperature range using corner lots.
The values are provided in Table 5.

Table 5: Absolute maximum ratings

```
Parameter Condition Min Max Unit
```
```
Voltage at any supply pin VDD and VDDIO pin - 0.3 4.25 V
Voltage at any interface pin - 0.3 VDDIO + 0.3 V
Storage temperature ≤ 65% RH - 45 +85 °C
Pressure 0 20 000 hPa
ESD HBM, at any pin ±2 kV
```
```
CDM ±500 V
Machine model ±200 V
```

## 3. Functional description

### 3.1 Block diagram

Figure 2 shows a simplified block diagram of the BME280:

```
Logic
```
```
Pressure
front-end
```
##### OSC NVM

```
Voltage
reference
```
```
Voltage
regulator
(analog &
digital)
```
```
VDDIO
```
```
GND
```
```
I n t e r f a c e
SDI
```
```
SDO
```
```
SCK
```
```
CSB
```
```
VDD
```
##### POR

```
Pressure
sensing
element
```
```
Humidity
sensing
element
```
```
Humidity
front-end
```
```
Temperature
front-end
```
```
Temperature
sensing
element
```
##### ADC

Figure 2: Block diagram of BME

### 3.2 Power management

The BME280 has two distinct power supply pins

- VDD is the main power supply for all internal analog and digital functional blocks
- VDDIO is a separate power supply pin used for the supply of the digital interface

A power-on reset (POR) generator is built in; it resets the logic part and the register values after both
VDD and VDDIO reach their minimum levels. There are no limitations on slope and sequence of raising
the VDD and VDDIO levels. After powering up, the sensor settles in sleep mode (described in chapter
3.3.2).

It is prohibited to keep any interface pin (SDI, SDO, SCK or CSB) at a logical high level when VDDIO is
switched off. Such a configuration can permanently damage the device due an excessive current flow
through the ESD protection diodes.

If VDDIO is supplied, but VDD is not, the interface pins are kept at a high-Z level. The bus can therefore
already be used freely before the BME280 VDD supply is established.

Resetting the sensor is possible by cycling VDD level or by writing a soft reset command. Cycling the
VDDIO level will not cause a reset.

### 3.3 Sensor modes..........................................................................................................................

The BME280 offers three sensor modes: sleep mode, forced mode and normal mode. These can be
selected using the _mode_ [1:0] setting (see chapter 5.4.5). The available modes are:

- Sleep mode: no operation, all registers accessible, lowest power, selected after startup
- Forced mode: perform one measurement, store results and return to sleep mode
- Normal mode: perpetual cycling of measurements and inactive periods.


The modes will be explained in detail in chapters 3.3.2 (sleep mode), 3.3.3 (forced mode) and 3.3.
(normal mode).

#### 3.3.1 Sensor mode transitions

The supported mode transitions are shown in Figure 3. If the device is currently performing a
measurement, execution of mode switching commands is delayed until the end of the currently
running measurement period. Further mode change commands or other write commands to the
register _ctrl_hum_ are ignored until the mode change command has been executed. Mode transitions
other than the ones shown below are tested for stability but do not represent recommended use of the
device.

```
Power OFF
(VDD or VDDIO = 0)
```
```
VDD and VDDIO
supplied
Mode[1:0] = 00
```
```
Mode[1:0] = 01
```
```
Sleep
```
```
Normal
(cyclic standby and
measurement periods)
```
```
Mode[1:0] = 11
Forced
(one measurement
period)
```
```
Mode[1:0] = 01
```
Figure 3: Sensor mode transition diagram

#### 3.3.2 Sleep mode

Sleep mode is entered by default after power on reset. In sleep mode, no measurements are
performed and power consumption (IDDSM) is at a minimum. All registers are accessible; Chip-ID and
compensation coefficients can be read. There are no special restrictions on interface timings.

#### 3.3.3 Forced mode

In forced mode, a single measurement is performed in accordance to the selected measurement and
filter options. When the measurement is finished, the sensor returns to sleep mode and the
measurement results can be obtained from the data registers. For a next measurement, forced mode
needs to be selected again. This is similar to BMP180 operation. Using forced mode is recommended
for applications which require low sampling rate or host-based synchronization. The timing diagram is
shown below.


```
time
POR settingsWrite Data readout Mode[1:0] = 01
```
```
Measurement H
time
```
```
current
```
##### IDDSL

##### IDDSB

##### IDDP

##### IDDH

##### POR

```
Measurement T Measurement P
Write
settings
```
##### IDDT

```
Measurement H Measurement T Measurement P
```
```
tmeasure
```
```
Mode[1:0] = 01
```
```
cycle time = rate of force mode
```
Figure 4: Forced mode timing diagram

#### 3.3.4 Normal mode

Normal mode comprises an automated perpetual cycling between an (active) measurement period
and an (inactive) standby period.
The measurements are performed in accordance to the selected measurement and filter options. The
standby time is determined by the setting _t_sb_ [2:0] and can be set to between 0.5 and 1000 ms
according to Table 27.
The total cycle time depends on the sum of the active time (see chapter 9) and standby time tstandby.
The current in the standby period (IDDSB) is slightly higher than in sleep mode. After setting the
measurement and filter options and enabling normal mode, the last measurement results can always
be obtained at the data registers without the need of further write accesses.
Using normal mode is recommended when using the IIR filter. This is useful for applications in which
short-term disturbances (e.g. blowing into the sensor) should be filtered. The timing diagram is shown
below:

```
Measurement H
time
```
```
current
```
##### IDDSL

##### IDDSB

##### IDDP

##### IDDH

```
POR Mode[1:0] = 11
```
```
Measurement T Measurement P
Data readout
when needed
```
```
Write
settings
```
```
tstandby
IDDT
```
```
Measurement H Measurement T Measurement P
```
```
tmeasure
```
```
cycle time = tmeasure + tstandby
```
Figure 5: Normal mode timing diagram


### 3.4 Measurement flow

The BME280 measurement period consists of a temperature, pressure and humidity measurement
with selectable oversampling. After the measurement period, the pressure and temperature data can
be passed through an optional IIR filter, which removes short-term fluctuations in pressure (e.g.
caused by slamming a door). For humidity, such a filter is not needed and has not been implemented.
The flow is depicted in the diagram below.

```
Measure temperature
(oversampling set by osrs_t;
skip if osrs_t = 0)
```
```
Start
measurement cycle
```
```
Measure pressure
(oversampling set by osrs_p;
skip if osrs_p = 0)
```
```
IIR filter enabled?
```
```
End
measurement cycle
```
```
IIR filter initialised?
```
```
Copy ADC values
to filter memory
(initalises IIR filter)
```
```
No
```
```
Update filter memory using
filter memory, ADC value
and filter coefficient
```
```
No
```
```
Yes
```
```
Yes
```
```
Copy filter memory
to output registers
```
```
Measure humidity
(oversampling set by osrs_h;
skip if osrs_h = 0)
```
Figure 6: BME280 measurement cycle

The individual blocks of the diagram above will be detailed in the following subchapters.

#### 3.4.1 Humidity measurement

The humidity measurement can be enabled or skipped. When enabled, several oversampling options
exist. The humidity measurement is controlled by the _osrs_h_ [2:0] setting, which is detailed in chapter
5.4.3. For the humidity measurement, oversampling is possible to reduce the noise. The resolution of
the humidity measurement is fixed at 16 bit ADC output.

#### 3.4.2 Pressure measurement

Pressure measurement can be enabled or skipped. When enabled, several oversampling options
exist. The pressure measurement is controlled by the _osrs_p_ [2:0] setting which is detailed in chapter
5.4.5. For the pressure measurement, oversampling is possible to reduce the noise. The resolution of
the pressure data depends on the IIR filter (see chapter 3.4.4) and the oversampling setting (see
chapter 5.4.5):

- When the IIR filter is enabled, the pressure resolution is 20 bit.
- When the IIR filter is disabled, the pressure resolution is 16 + ( _osrs_p_ – 1) bit, e.g. 18 bit when
    _osrs_p_ is set to ‘3’.

#### 3.4.3 Temperature measurement

Temperature measurement can be enabled or skipped. Skipping the measurement could be useful to
measure pressure extremely rapidly. When enabled, several oversampling options exist. The
temperature measurement is controlled by the _osrs_t_ [2:0] setting which is detailed in chapter 5.4.5.
For the temperature measurement, oversampling is possible to reduce the noise.
The resolution of the temperature data depends on the IIR filter (see chapter 3.4.4) and the
oversampling setting (see chapter 5.4.5):

- When the IIR filter is enabled, the temperature resolution is 20 bit.


- When the IIR filter is disabled, the temperature resolution is 16 + ( _osrs_t_ – 1) bit, e.g. 18 bit
    when _osrs_t_ is set to ‘3’.

#### 3.4.4 IIR filter....................................................................................................................

The humidity value inside the sensor does not fluctuate rapidly and does not require low pass filtering.
However, the environmental pressure is subject to many short-term changes, caused e.g. by
slamming of a door or window, or wind blowing into the sensor. To suppress these disturbances in the
output data without causing additional interface traffic and processor work load, the BME280 features
an internal IIR filter. It effectively reduces the bandwidth of the temperature and pressure output
signals^10 and increases the resolution of the pressure and temperature output data to 20 bit. The
output of a next measurement step is filtered using the following formula:

```
data_filtered=
```
```
data_filtered_old⋅(filter_coefficient− 1 )+data_ADC
filter_coefficient
```
Data_filtered_old is the data coming from the current filter memory, and data_ADC is the data coming
from current ADC acquisition. Data_filtered is the new value of filter memory and the value that will be
sent to the output registers.

The IIR filter can be configured to different filter coefficients, which slows down the response to the
sensor inputs. Note that the response time with enabled IIR filter depends on the number of samples
generated, which means that the data output rate must be known to calculate the actual response
time. For register configuration, please refer to Table 28. A sample response time calculation is shown
in chapter 9.4.

Table 6: _filter_ settings

```
Filter coefficient Samples to reach ≥75 %
of step response
```
```
Filter off 1
```
```
2 2
```
```
4 5
```
```
8 11
```
```
16 22
```
In order to find a suitable setting for _filter_ , please consult chapter 3.5.

When writing to the register _filter_ , the filter is reset. The next ADC values will the pass through the filter
unchanged and become the initial memory values for the filter. If temperature or pressure
measurements are skipped, the corresponding filter memory will be kept unchanged even though the
output registers are set to 0x80000. When the previously skipped measurement is re-enabled, the
output will be filtered using the filter memory from the last time when the measurement was not
skipped. If this is not desired, please write to the _filter_ register in order to re-initialize the filter.

(^10) Since the BME280 does not sample continuously, filtering can suffer from signals with a frequency higher than the sampling
rate of the sensor. E.g. environmental fluctuations caused by windows being opened and closed might have a frequency <5 Hz.
Consequently, a sampling rate of ODR = 10 Hz is sufficient to obey the Nyquist theorem.


The step response (e.g. response to in sudden change in height) of the different filter settings is
displayed in Figure 7.

Figure 7: Step response at different IIR filter settings

### 3.5 Recommended modes of operation

The different oversampling options, filter settings and sensor modes result in a large number of
possible settings. In this chapter, a number of settings recommended for various scenarios are
presented.

#### 3.5.1 Weather monitoring

Description: Only a very low data rate is needed. Power consumption is minimal. Noise of pressure
values is of no concern. Humidity, pressure and temperature are monitored.

Table 7: Settings and performance for weather monitoring

```
Suggested settings for weather monitoring
Sensor mode forced mode, 1 sample / minute
Oversampling settings pressure ×1, temperature ×1, humidity × 1
IIR filter settings filter off
Performance for suggested settings
Current consumption 0.1 6 μA
RMS Noise 3.3 Pa / 30 cm, 0.07 %RH
Data output rate 1/60 Hz
```
#### 3.5.2 Humidity sensing

Description: A low data rate is needed. Power consumption is minimal. Forced mode is used to
minimize power consumption and to synchronize readout, but using normal mode would also be
possible.

```
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
0
```
```
10
```
```
20
```
```
30
```
```
40
```
```
50
```
```
60
```
```
70
```
```
80
```
```
90
```
```
100
```
```
Number of samples
```
```
Response to step [%]
```
```
p p g
```
```
filter off
2
4
8
16
```

Table 8: Settings and performance for humidity sensing

```
Suggested settings for weather monitoring
Sensor mode forced mode, 1 sample / second
Oversampling settings pressure ×0, temperature ×1, humidity × 1
IIR filter settings filter off
Performance for suggested settings
Current consumption 2. 9 μA
RMS Noise 0.07 %RH
Data output rate 1 Hz
```
#### 3.5.3 Indoor navigation

Lowest possible altitude noise is needed. A very low bandwidth is preferred. Increased power
consumption is tolerated. Humidity is measured to help detect room changes. This setting is
suggested for the Android settings ‘SENSOR_DELAY_NORMAL’ and ‘SENSOR_DELAY_UI’.

Table 9: Settings and performance for indoor navigation

```
Suggested settings for indoor navigation
Sensor mode normal mode, tstandby = 0.5 ms
Oversampling settings pressure ×16, temperature ×2, humidity × 1
IIR filter settings filter coefficient 16
Performance for suggested settings
Current consumption 633 μA
RMS Noise 0.2 Pa / 1.7 cm
Data output rate 25 Hz
Filter bandwidth 0.53 Hz
Response time (75%) 0.9 s
```
#### 3.5.4 Gaming

Low altitude noise is needed. The required bandwidth is ~2 Hz in order to respond quickly to altitude
changes (e.g. be able to dodge a flying monster in a game). Increased power consumption is
tolerated. Humidity sensor is disabled. This setting is suggested for the Android settings
‘SENSOR_DELAY_GAMING’ and ‘SENSOR_DELAY_FASTEST’.


Table 10: Settings and performance for gaming

```
Suggested settings for gaming
Sensor mode normal mode, tstandby = 0.5 ms
Oversampling settings pressure ×4, temperature ×1, humidity × 0
IIR filter settings filter coefficient 16
Performance for suggested settings
Current consumption 581 μA
RMS Noise 0.3 Pa / 2.5 cm
Data output rate 83 Hz
Filter bandwidth 1.7 5 Hz
Response time (75%) 0.3 s
```
### 3.6 Noise

The noise depends on the oversampling and, for pressure and temperature, on the filter setting used.
The stated values were determined in a controlled environment and are based on the average
standard deviation of 32 consecutive measurement points taken at highest sampling speed. This is
needed in order to exclude long term drifts from the noise measurement. The noise depends both on
humidity/pressure oversampling and temperature oversampling, since the temperature value is used
for humidity/pressure temperature compensation. The oversampling combinations use below results in
an optimal power to noise ratio.

Table 11: Noise and current for humidity

```
Humidity / temperature
oversampling setting
```
```
Typical RMS noise in
humidity [%RH] at 25 °C
```
```
Typ. current [μA] at 1 Hz forced
mode, 25 °C, humidity and
temperature measurement, incl.
IDDSM
×1 / ×1 0.07^ 1.8^
```
```
×2 / ×1 0.05^ 2.5^
```
```
×4 / ×1 0.04^ 3.8^
```
```
×8 / ×1 0.03^ 6.5^
```
```
×16 / ×1 0.02^ 11.7^
```

Table 12: Noise and current for pressure

Typical RMS noise in pressure [Pa] at 25 °C (^) Typ. current [μA] at 1 Hz forced
mode, 25 °C, pressure and
temperature measurement, incl.
IDDSM
**Pressure / temperature
oversampling setting
IIR filter coefficient
off 2 4 8 16**
×1 / × 1 3.3 1.9 1.2 0.9 0.4 2.8
×2 / × 1 2.6 1.5 1.0 0.6 0.4 4.2
×4 / × 1 2.1 1.2 0.8 0.5 0.3 7.1
×8 / × 1 1.6 1.0 0.6 0.4 0.2 12.8
×16 / × 2 1.3 0.8 0.5 0.4 0.2 24.9
Table 13: Temperature dependence of pressure noise
RMS noise at different temperatures
Temperature Typical change in noise
compared to 25 °C

- 10 °C +25 %
    25 °C ±0 %
    75 °C - 5 %

Table 14: Noise in temperature

```
Temperature
oversampling setting
```
```
Typical RMS noise in
temperature [ °C] at 25 °C
```
```
×1 0.0^05
```
```
×2 0.0^04
```
```
×4 0.0^03
```
```
×8 0.0^03
```
```
×16 0.0^02
```

## 4. Data readout

To read out data after a conversion, it is strongly recommended to use a burst read and not address
every register individually. This will prevent a possible mix-up of bytes belonging to different
measurements and reduce interface traffic. Note that in I²C mode, even when pressure was not
measured, reading the unused registers is faster than reading temperature and humidity data
separately.
Data readout is done by starting a burst read from 0xF7 to 0xFC (temperature and pressure) or from
0xF7 to 0xFE (temperature, pressure and humidity). The data are read out in an unsigned 20-bit
format both for pressure and for temperature and in an unsigned 16-bit format for humidity. It is
strongly recommended to use the BME280 API, available from Bosch Sensortec, for readout and
compensation. For details on memory map and interfaces, please consult chapters 5 and 6
respectively.

After the uncompensated values for pressure, temperature and humidity ‘ut’, ‘up’ and ‘uh’ have been
read, the actual humidity, pressure and temperature needs to be calculated using the compensation
parameters stored in the device. The procedure is elaborated in chapter 4.2.

### 4.1 Data register shadowing

In normal mode, the timing of measurements is not necessarily synchronized to the readout by the
user. This means that new measurement results may become available while the user is reading the
results from the previous measurement. In this case, shadowing is performed in order to guarantee
data consistency. Shadowing will only work if all data registers are read in a single burst read.
Therefore, the user must use burst reads if he does not synchronize data readout with the
measurement cycle. Using several independent read commands may result in inconsistent data.
If a new measurement is finished and the data registers are still being read, the new measurement
results are transferred into shadow data registers. The content of shadow registers is transferred into
data registers as soon as the user ends the burst read, even if not all data registers were read.
The end of the burst read is marked by the rising edge of CSB pin in SPI case or by the recognition of
a stop condition in I^2 C case. After the end of the burst read, all user data registers are updated at
once.

### 4.2 Output compensation

The BME280 output consists of the ADC output values. However, each sensing element behaves
differently. Therefore, the actual pressure and temperature must be calculated using a set of
calibration parameters. In this chapter, the method to read out the trimming values will be given. The
recommended calculation uses fixed point arithmetic and is given in chapter 4.2.3.
In high-level languages like Matlab™ or LabVIEW™, fixed-point code may not be well supported. In
this case the floating-point code in appendix 8.1 can be used as an alternative.
For 8-bit micro controllers, the variable size may be limited. In this case a simplified 32 bit integer code
with reduced accuracy is given in appendix 8.2.

#### 4.2.1 Computational requirements

In the table below an overview is given for the number of clock cycles needed for compensation on a
32 bit Cortex-M3 micro controller with GCC optimization level -O2. This controller does not feature a
floating point unit, thus all floating-point calculations are emulated. Floating point is only recommended
for PC application, where an FPU is present and these calculations are performed drastically faster.


Table 15: Computational requirements for compensation formulas

```
Compensation of Number of clocks (ARM Cortex-M3)
32 bit integer 64 bit integer Double precision
Humidity ~83 – ~2900 11
Temperature ~46 – ~2400 11
Pressure ~11 2 12 ~1400 ~5400 11
```
#### 4.2.2 Trimming parameter readout

The trimming parameters are programmed into the devices’ non-volatile memory (NVM) during
production and cannot be altered by the customer. Each compensation word is a 16-bit signed or
unsigned integer value stored in two’s complement. As the memory is organized into 8-bit words, two
words must always be combined in order to represent the compensation word. The 8-bit registers are
named calib00...calib 41 and are stored at memory addresses 0x88...0xA1 and 0xE1...0xE7. The
corresponding compensation words are named dig_T# for temperature compensation related values,
dig_P# for pressure related values and dig_H# for humidity related values. The mapping is seen in
Table 16.

Table 16: Compensation parameter storage, naming and data type

```
Register Address Register content Data type
0x88 / 0x89 dig_T1 [7:0] / [15:8] unsigned short
0x8A / 0x8B dig_T2 [7:0] / [15:8] signed short
0x8C / 0x8D dig_T3 [7:0] / [15:8] signed short
0x8E / 0x8F dig_P 1 [7:0] / [15:8] unsigned short
0x90 / 0x91 dig_P2 [7:0] / [15:8] signed short
0x92 / 0x93 dig_P3 [7:0] / [15:8] signed short
0x94 / 0x95 dig_P4 [7:0] / [15:8] signed short
0x96 / 0x97 dig_P5 [7:0] / [15:8] signed short
0x98 / 0x99 dig_P6 [7:0] / [15:8] signed short
0x9A / 0x9B dig_P7 [7:0] / [15:8] signed short
0x9C / 0x9D dig_P8 [7:0] / [15:8] signed short
0x9E / 0x9F dig_P9 [7:0] / [15:8] signed short
0xA1 dig_H1 [7:0] unsigned char
0xE1 / 0xE2 dig_H2 [7:0] / [15:8] signed short
0xE3 dig_H3 [7:0] unsigned char
0xE4 / 0xE5[3:0] dig_H4 [11:4] / [3:0] signed short
0xE5[7:4] / 0xE6 dig_H5 [3:0] / [11:4] signed short
```
(^11) Use only recommended for high-level programming languages like Matlab™ or LabVIEW™
(^12) Use only recommended for 8-bit micro controllers


```
0xE7 dig_H6 signed char
```
#### 4.2.3 Compensation formulas

Please note that it is strongly advised to use the API available from Bosch Sensortec to perform
readout and compensation. If this is not wanted, the code below can be applied at the user’s risk. Both
pressure and temperature values are expected to be received in 20 bit format, positive, stored in a 32
bit signed integer. Humidity is expected to be received in 16 bit format, positive, stored in a 32 bit
signed integer.
The variable t_fine (signed 32 bit) carries a fine resolution temperature value over to the pressure and
humidity compensation formula and could be implemented as a global variable.
The data type “BME280_S32_t” should define a 32 bit signed integer variable type and can usually be
defined as “long signed int”.
The data type “BME280_U32_t” should define a 32 bit unsigned integer variable type and can usually
be defined as “long unsigned int”.
For best possible calculation accuracy in pressure, 64 bit integer support is needed. If this is not
possible on your platform, please see appendix 8.2 for a 32 bit alternative.
The data type “BME280_S64_t” should define a 64 bit signed integer variable type, which on most
supporting platforms can be defined as “long long signed int”. The revision of the code is rev.1.1.

// Returns temperature in DegC, resolution is 0.01 DegC. Output value of “5123” equals 51.23
DegC.
// t_fine carries fine temperature as global value
BME280_S32_t t_fine;
BME280_S32_t BME280_compensate_T_int32(BME280_S32_t adc_T)
{
BME280_S32_t var1, var2, T;
var1 = ((((adc_T>>3) – ((BME280_S32_t)dig_T1<<1))) * ((BME280_S32_t)dig_T2)) >> 11;
var2 = (((((adc_T>>4) – ((BME280_S32_t)dig_T1)) * ((adc_T>>4) – ((BME280_S32_t)dig_T1)))
>> 12) *
((BME280_S32_t)dig_T3)) >> 14;
t_fine = var1 + var2;
T = (t_fine * 5 + 128) >> 8;
return T;
}

// Returns pressure in Pa as unsigned 32 bit integer in Q24.8 format (24 integer bits and 8
fractional bits).
// Output value of “24674867” represents 24674867/256 = 96386.2 Pa = 963.862 hPa
BME280_U32_t BME280_compensate_P_int64(BME280_S32_t adc_P)
{
BME280_S64_t var1, var2, p;
var1 = ((BME280_S64_t)t_fine) – 128000;
var2 = var1 * var1 * (BME280_S64_t)dig_P6;
var2 = var2 + ((var1*(BME280_S64_t)dig_P5)<<17);
var2 = var2 + (((BME280_S64_t)dig_P4)<<35);
var1 = ((var1 * var1 * (BME280_S64_t)dig_P3)>>8) + ((var1 * (BME280_S64_t)dig_P2)<<12);
var1 = (((((BME280_S64_t)1)<<47)+var1))*((BME280_S64_t)dig_P1)>>33;
if (var1 == 0)
{
return 0; // avoid exception caused by division by zero
}
p = 1048576-adc_P;
p = (((p<<31)-var2)*3125)/var1;
var1 = (((BME280_S64_t)dig_P9) * (p>>13) * (p>>13)) >> 25;
var2 = (((BME280_S64_t)dig_P8) * p) >> 19;
p = ((p + var1 + var2) >> 8) + (((BME280_S64_t)dig_P7)<<4);
return (BME280_U32_t)p;
}

// Returns humidity in %RH as unsigned 32 bit integer in Q22.10 format (22 integer and 10
fractional bits).
// Output value of “47445” represents 47445/1024 = 46.333 %RH
BME280_U32_t bme280_compensate_H_int32(BME280_S32_t adc_H)
{
BME280_S32_t v_x1_u32r;

v_x1_u32r = (t_fine – ((BME280_S32_t)76800));


v_x1_u32r = (((((adc_H << 14) – (((BME280_S32_t)dig_H4) << 20) – (((BME280_S32_t)dig_H5) *
v_x1_u32r)) + ((BME280_S32_t)16384)) >> 15) * (((((((v_x1_u32r *
((BME280_S32_t)dig_H6)) >> 10) * (((v_x1_u32r * ((BME280_S32_t)dig_H3)) >> 11) +
((BME280_S32_t)32768))) >> 10) + ((BME280_S32_t)2097152)) * ((BME280_S32_t)dig_H2) +
8192) >> 14));
v_x1_u32r = (v_x1_u32r – (((((v_x1_u32r >> 15) * (v_x1_u32r >> 15)) >> 7) *
((BME280_S32_t)dig_H1)) >> 4));
v_x1_u32r = (v_x1_u32r < 0? 0 : v_x1_u32r);
v_x1_u32r = (v_x1_u32r > 419430400? 419430400 : v_x1_u32r);
return (BME280_U32_t)(v_x1_u32r>>12);
}

## 5. Global memory map and register description

### 5.1 General remarks

The entire communication with the device is performed by reading from and writing to registers.
Registers have a width of 8 bits. There are several registers which are reserved; they should not be
written to and no specific value is guaranteed when they are read. For details on the interface, consult
chapter 6.

### 5.2 Register compatibility to BMP280............................................................................................

The BME280 is downward register compatible to the BMP280, which means that the pressure and
temperature control and readout is identical to BMP280. However, the following exceptions have to be
considered:

Table 17: Register incompatibilities between BMP280 and BME280

```
Register Bits Content BMP280 BME280
```
```
0xD0 “ id ” 7:0 chip_id Read value is
0x56 / 0x57 (samples)
0x58 (mass production)
```
```
Read value is 0x60
```
```
0xF5 “ config ” 7:5 t_sb ‘110’: 2000 ms
‘111’: 4000 ms
```
```
‘110’: 10 ms
‘111 ’: 2 0 ms
0xF7...0xF9 “ press ” 19:0 press Resolution (16...20 bit)
depends only on osrs_p
```
```
Without filter, resolution depends on
osrs_p ; when using filter, resolution
is always 20 bit
0xFA...0xFC “ temp ” 19:0 temp Resolution (16...20 bit)
only depends on osrs_t
```
```
Without filter, resolution depends on
osrs_t ; when using filter, resolution is
always 20 bit
```
### 5.3 Memory map

The memory map is given in Table 18 below. Reserved registers are not shown.


Table 18: Memory map

```
Register Name Address bit7 bit6 bit5 bit4 bit3 bit2 bit1 bit0 Resetstate
hum_lsb 0xFE 0x00
hum_msb 0xFD 0x80
temp_xlsb 0xFC 0 0 0 0 0x00
temp_lsb 0xFB 0x00
temp_msb 0xFA 0x80
press_xlsb 0xF9 0 0 0 0 0x00
press_lsb 0xF8 0x00
press_msb 0xF7 0x80
config 0xF5 spi3w_en[0] 0x00
ctrl_meas 0xF4 0x00
status 0xF3 measuring[0] im_update[0] 0x00
ctrl_hum 0xF2 0x00
calib26..calib41 0xE1...0xF0 individual
reset 0xE0 0x00
id 0xD0 0x60
calib00..calib25 0x88...0xA1 individual
Registers: Reservedregisters Calibration data registersControl registersData registersStatus Chip ID Reset
Type: changedo not read only read / write read only read only read only write only
```
```
hum_lsb<7:0>
```
```
press_lsb<7:0>
press_msb<7:0>
mode[1:0]
```
```
t_sb[2:0]
```
```
press_xlsb<7:4>
```
```
temp_xlsb<7:4>
temp_lsb<7:0>
temp_msb<7:0>
```
```
calibration data
```
```
chip_id[7:0]
```
```
osrs_h[2:0]
```
```
hum_msb<7:0>
```
```
calibration data
reset[7:0]
```
```
osrs_p[2:0]
```
```
filter[2:0]
osrs_t[2:0]
```
### 5.4 Register description

#### 5.4.1 Register 0xD0 “id”

The _“id”_ register contains the chip identification number chip_id[7:0], which is 0x60. This number can
be read as soon as the device finished the power-on-reset.

#### 5.4.2 Register 0xE0 “reset”

The _“reset”_ register contains the soft reset word reset[7:0]. If the value 0xB6 is written to the register,
the device is reset using the complete power-on-reset procedure. Writing other values than 0xB6 has
no effect. The readout value is always 0x00.

#### 5.4.3 Register 0xF2 “ctrl_hum”

The _“ctrl_hum”_ register sets the humidity data acquisition options of the device. **Changes to this
register only become effective after a write operation to “** **_ctrl_meas”_****.**


Table 19: Register 0xF2 _“ctrl_hum”_

```
Register 0xF2
“ctrl_hum”
```
```
Name Description
```
```
Bit 2, 1, 0 osrs_h[2:0] Controls oversampling of humidity data. See Table
20 for settings and chapter 3.4.1 for details.
```
Table 20: register settings _osrs_h_

```
osrs_h [2:0] Humidity oversampling
```
```
000 Skipped (output set to 0x8000)
```
```
001 oversampling ×1
```
```
010 oversampling ×2
```
```
011 oversampling ×4
```
```
100 oversampling ×8
```
```
101, others oversampling ×16
```
#### 5.4.4 Register 0xF3 “status”

The _“status”_ register contains two bits which indicate the status of the device.

Table 21: Register 0xF3 _“status”_

```
Register 0xF3
“status”
```
```
Name Description
```
```
Bit 3 measuring[0] Automatically set to ‘1’ whenever a conversion is
running and back to ‘0’ when the results have been
transferred to the data registers.
Bit 0 im_update[0] Automatically set to ‘1’ when the NVM data are being
copied to image registers and back to ‘0’ when the
copying is done. The data are copied at power-on-
reset and before every conversion.
```
#### 5.4.5 Register 0xF4 “ctrl_meas”

The _“ctrl_meas”_ register sets the pressure and temperature data acquisition options of the device. The
register needs to be written after changing _“ctrl_hum”_ for the changes to become effective.


Table 22: Register 0xF4 _“ctrl_meas”_

```
Register 0xF4
“ctrl_meas”
```
```
Name Description
```
```
Bit 7, 6, 5 osrs_t[2:0] Controls oversampling of temperature data. See
Table 24 for settings and chapter 3.4.3 for details.
Bit 4, 3, 2 osrs_p[2:0] Controls oversampling of pressure data. See
Table 23 for settings and chapter 3.4.2 for details.
Bit 1, 0 mode[1:0] Controls the sensor mode of the device. See Table
25 for settings and chapter 3.3 for details.
```
Table 23: register settings _osrs_p_

**osrs_p[2:0]** (^) **Pressure oversampling**
000 Skipped (output set to 0x80000)
001 oversampling ×1
010 oversampling ×2
011 oversampling ×4
100 oversampling ×8
101, others oversampling ×16
Table 24: register settings _osrs_t_
**osrs_t[2:0]** (^) **Temperature oversampling**
000 Skipped (output set to 0x80000)
001 oversampling ×1
010 oversampling ×2
011 oversampling ×4
100 oversampling ×8
101, others oversampling ×16
Table 25: register settings _mode_
**_mode_** **[1:0] Mode**
00 Sleep mode
01 and 10 Forced mode
11 Normal mode


#### 5.4.6 Register 0xF5 “config”

The _“config”_ register sets the rate, filter and interface options of the device. Writes to the “config”
register in normal mode may be ignored. In sleep mode writes are not ignored.

Table 26: Register 0xF5 _“config”_

```
Register 0xF5
“config”
```
```
Name Description
```
```
Bit 7, 6, 5 t_sb[2:0] Controls inactive duration tstandby in normal mode.
See Table 27 for settings and chapter 3.3.4 f or
details.
Bit 4, 3, 2 filter[2:0] Controls the time constant of the IIR filter. See Table
27 for settings and chapter 3.4.4 for details.
Bit 0 spi3w_en[0] Enables 3-wire SPI interface when set to ‘1’. See
chapter 6.3 for details.
```
Table 27: _t_sb_ settings

```
t_sb [2:0] tstandby [ms]
000 0.5
001 62.5
010 125
011 250
100 500
101 1000
110 10
111 20
```
Table 28: _filter_ settings

```
filter [2:0] Filter coefficient
```
```
000 Filter off
```
```
001 2
```
```
010 4
```
```
011 8
100, others 16
```
#### 5.4.7 Register 0xF7...0xF9 “press” (_msb, _lsb, _xlsb)

The _“press”_ register contains the raw pressure measurement output data up[19:0]. For details on how
to read out the pressure and temperature information from the device, please consult chapter 4.


Table 29: Register 0xF7 ... 0xF9 _“press”_

```
Register 0xF7...0xF9
“press”
```
```
Name Description
```
```
0xF7 press_msb[7:0] Contains the MSB part up[19:12] of the raw pressure
measurement output data.
0xF8 press_lsb[7:0] Contains the LSB part up[11:4] of the raw pressure
measurement output data.
0xF9 (bit 7, 6, 5, 4) press_xlsb[3:0] Contains the XLSB part up[3:0] of the raw pressure
measurement output data. Contents depend on
temperature resolution.
```
#### 5.4.8 Register 0xFA...0xFC “temp” (_msb, _lsb, _xlsb)

The _“temp”_ register contains the raw temperature measurement output data ut[19:0]. For details on
how to read out the pressure and temperature information from the device, please consult chapter 4.

Table 30: Register 0xFA ... 0xFC _“temp”_

```
Register 0xFA...0xFC
“temp”
```
```
Name Description
```
```
0xFA temp_msb[7:0] Contains the MSB part ut[19:12] of the raw
temperature measurement output data.
0xFB temp_lsb[7:0] Contains the LSB part ut[11:4] of the raw
temperature measurement output data.
0xFC (bit 7, 6, 5, 4) temp_xlsb[3:0] Contains the XLSB part ut[3:0] of the raw
temperature measurement output data. Contents
depend on pressure resolution.
```
#### 5.4.9 Register 0xFD...0xFE “hum” (_msb, _lsb)

The _“temp”_ register contains the raw temperature measurement output data ut[19:0]. For details on
how to read out the pressure and temperature information from the device, please consult chapter 4.

Table 31: Register 0xFD ... 0xFE _“hum”_

```
Register 0xFD...0xFE
“hum”
```
```
Name Description
```
```
0xFD hum_msb[7:0] Contains the MSB part uh[ 15 : 8 ] of the raw humidity
measurement output data.
0xFE temp_lsb[7:0] Contains the LSB part uh[ 7 : 0 ] of the raw humidity
measurement output data.
```

## 6. Digital interfaces

The BME280 supports the I²C and SPI digital interfaces; it acts as a slave for both protocols. The I²C
interface supports the Standard, Fast and High Speed modes. The SPI interface supports both SPI
mode ‘00’ (CPOL = CPHA = ‘0’) and mode ‘11’ (CPOL = CPHA = ‘1’) in 4-wire and 3-wire configuration.

The following transactions are supported:

- Single byte write
- multiple byte write (using pairs of register addresses and register data)
- single byte read
- multiple byte read (using a single register address which is auto-incremented)

### 6.1 Interface selection

Interface selection is done automatically based on CSB (chip select) status. If CSB is connected to
VDDIO, the I²C interface is active. If CSB is pulled down, the SPI interface is activated. After CSB has
been pulled down once (regardless of whether any clock cycle occurred), the I²C interface is disabled
until the next power-on-reset. This is done in order to avoid inadvertently decoding SPI traffic to
another slave as I²C data. Since the device startup is deferred until both VDD and VDDIO are
established, there is no risk of incorrect protocol detection because of the power-up sequence used.
However, if I²C is to be used and CSB is not directly connected to VDDIO but is instead connected to a
programmable pin, it must be ensured that this pin already outputs the VDDIO level during power-on-
reset of the device. If this is not the case, the device will be locked in SPI mode and not respond to I²C
commands.

### 6.2 I²C Interface

The I²C slave interface is compatible with Philips I²C Specification version 2.1. For detailed timings,
please review Table 33. All modes (standard, fast, high speed) are supported. SDA and SCL are not
pure open-drain. Both pads contain ESD protection diodes to VDDIO and GND. As the devices does
not perform clock stretching, the SCL structure is a high-Z input without drain capability.

Figure 8: SDI/SCK ESD drawing

The 7-bit device address is 111011x. The 6 MSB bits are fixed. The last bit is changeable by SDO
value and can be changed during operation. Connecting SDO to GND results in slave address
1110110 (0x76); connection it to VDDIO results in slave address 1110111 (0x77), which is the same as


BMP280’s I²C address. The SDO pin cannot be left floating; if left floating, the I²C address will be
undefined.

The I²C interface uses the following pins:

- SCK: serial clock (SCL)
- SDI: data (SDA)
- SDO: Slave address LSB (GND = ‘0’, VDDIO = ‘1’)

CSB must be connected to VDDIO to select I²C interface. SDI is bi-directional with open drain to GND: it
must be externally connected to VDDIO via a pull up resistor. Refer to chapter 7 for connection
instructions.
The following abbreviations will be used in the I²C protocol figures:

- S Start
- P Stop
- ACKS Acknowledge by slave
- ACKM Acknowledge by master
- NACKM Not acknowledge by master

#### 6.2.1 I²C write...................................................................................................................

Writing is done by sending the slave address in write mode (RW = ‘0’), resulting in slave address
111011X0 (‘X’ is determined by state of SDO pin. Then the master sends pairs of register addresses
and register data. The transaction is ended by a stop condition. This is depicted in Figure 9.

```
Start RWACKS ACKS ACKS
```
```
1 1 1 0 1 1 X 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 bit7 bit6 bit5 bit4 bit3 bit2 bit1 bit0 ...
```
```
ACKS ACKS Stop
```
```
... 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 bit7 bit6 bit5 bit4 bit3 bit2 bit1 bit0
```
```
Register address (A0h) Register data - address A0h
```
```
Register address (A1h)
```
```
S
```
```
Slave Address
```
```
Control byte Data byte
```
```
Control byte Data byte
```
```
P
```
```
Register data - address A1h
```
Figure 9: I²C multiple byte write (not auto-incremented)

#### 6.2.2 I²C read

To be able to read registers, first the register address must be sent in write mode (slave address
111011X0). Then either a stop or a repeated start condition must be generated. After this the slave is
addressed in read mode (RW = ‘1’) at address 111011X1, after which the slave sends out data from
auto-incremented register addresses until a NOACKM and stop condition occurs. This is depicted in
Figure 10, where register 0xF6 and 0xF7 are read.

```
Start RWACKS ACKS
```
```
1 1 1 0 1 1 X 0 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 0
```
```
Start RW ACKS ACKM NOACKMStop
```
```
1 1 1 0 1 1 X 1 bit7 bit6 bit5 bit4 bit3 bit2 bit1 bit0 bit7 bit6 bit5 bit4 bit3 bit2 bit1 bit0
```
```
Control byte
```
```
Data byte Data byte
```
```
Register address (F6h)
```
```
S
```
```
Slave Address
```
```
S P
```
```
Slave Address Register data - address F6h Register data - address F7h
```
Figure 10: I²C multiple byte read


### 6.3 SPI interface

The SPI interface is compatible with SPI mode ‘00’ (CPOL = CPHA = ‘0’) and mode ‘11’ (CPOL =
CPHA = ‘1’). The automatic selection between mode ‘00’ and ‘11’ is determined by the value of SCK
after the CSB falling edge.
The SPI interface has two modes: 4-wire and 3-wire. The protocol is the same for both. The 3-wire
mode is selected by setting ‘1’ to the register spi3w_en. The pad SDI is used as a data pad in 3-wire
mode.

The SPI interface uses the following pins:

- CSB: chip select, active low
- SCK: serial clock
- SDI: serial data input; data input/output in 3-wire mode
- SDO: serial data output; hi-Z in 3-wire mode
Refer to chapter 7 for connection instructions.

CSB is active low and has an integrated pull-up resistor. Data on SDI is latched by the device at SCK
rising edge and SDO is changed at SCK falling edge. Communication starts when CSB goes to low
and stops when CSB goes to high; during these transitions on CSB, SCK must be stable. The SPI

### protocol is shown in^ Figure 11. For timing details, please review Table 34.

```
CSB
```
```
SCK
```
```
SDI
RW AD 6 AD 5 AD 4 AD 3 AD 2 AD1 AD0 DI7 DI6 DI5 DI4 DI3 DI2 DI1 DI0
```
```
SDO
```
DO7 DO6 DO5 DO4 DO3 DO2 DO1 DO0 tri-state (^)
Figure 11: SPI protocol (shown for mode ‘11’ in 4-wire configuration)
In SPI mode, only 7 bits of the register addresses are used; the MSB of register address is not used
and replaced by a read/write bit (RW = ‘0’ for write and RW = ‘1’ for read).
Example: address 0xF7 is accessed by using SPI register address 0x77. For write access, the byte
0x77 is transferred, for read access, the byte 0xF7 is transferred.

#### 6.3.1 SPI write..................................................................................................................

Writing is done by lowering CSB and sending pairs control bytes and register data. The control bytes
consist of the SPI register address (= full register address without bit 7) and the write command (bit7 =
RW = ‘0’). Several pairs can be written without raising CSB. The transaction is ended by a raising
CSB. The SPI write protocol is depicted in Figure 12.

```
StartRW RW Stop
0 1 1 1 0 1 0 0 bit7 bit6 bit5 bit4 bit3 bit2 bit1 bit0 0 1 1 1 0 1 0 1 bit7 bit6 bit5 bit4 bit3 bit2 bit1 bit0
```
```
Control byte
CSB=
1
```
```
Data byte
Register address (F4h) Register address (F5h) Data register - adress F5h
CSB=
0
```
```
Control byte Data byte
Data register - address F4h
```
Figure 12: SPI multiple byte write (not auto-incremented)


#### 6.3.2 SPI read

Reading is done by lowering CSB and first sending one control byte. The control bytes consist of the
SPI register address (= full register address without bit 7) and the read command (bit 7 = RW = ‘1’).
After writing the control byte, data is sent out of the SDO pin (SDI in 3-wire mode); the register address
is automatically incremented. The SPI read protocol is depicted in Figure 13.

```
Start RW Stop
1 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 bit15 bit14 bit13 bit12 bit11 bit10 bit9 bit8 bit7bit6 bit5 bit4 bit3 bit2 bit1bit0
```
```
CSB
=
1
```
```
Data byte
Register address (F6h) Data register - address F7h
CSB
=
0
```
```
Control byte Data byte
Data register - address F6h
```
Figure 13: SPI multiple byte read

### 6.4 Interface parameter specification

#### 6.4.1 General interface parameters

The general interface parameters are given in Table 32 below.

Table 32: interface parameters

```
Parameter Symbol Condition Min Typ Max Unit
Input low level Vil_si VDDIO=1.2 V to 3. 6V 20 %VDDI
O^
Input high level Vih_si VDDIO=1.2 V to 3.6 V 80 %VDDI
O
Output low level I^2 C Vol_SDI VDDIO=1.62 V, Iol=3 mA 20 %VDDI
O
Output low level I^2 C Vol_SDI_1.2 VDDIO=1.20 V, Iol=3 mA 23 %VDDI
O^
Output low level SPI Vol_SDO VDDIO=1.62 V, Iol=1 mA 20 %VDDI
O^
Output low level SPI Vol_SDO_1.2 VDDIO=1.2 0 V, Iol=1 mA 23 %VDDI
O
Output high level Voh VDDIO=1.62 V, Ioh=1 mA
(SDO, SDI)
```
##### 80 %VDDI

##### O

```
Output high level Voh_1.2 VDDIO=1.2 0 V, Ioh=1 mA
(SDO, SDI)
```
##### 60 %VDDI

##### O^

```
Pull-up resistor Rpull Internal CSB pull-up
resistance to VDDIO
```
```
70 120 190 kΩ
```
```
I^2 C bus load capacitor Cb On SDI and SCK 400 pF
```
#### 6.4.2 I²C timings

For I²C timings, the following abbreviations are used:

- “S&F mode” = standard and fast mode
- “HS mode” = high speed mode
- Cb = bus capacitance on SDA line

All other naming refers to I²C specification 2.1 (January 2000).

The I²C timing diagram is in Figure 14. The corresponding values are given in Table 33.


```
tHDDAT
```
```
tf
```
```
tBUF
```
```
SDI
```
```
SCK
```
```
SDI
```
```
tLOW
```
```
tHDSTA tr
```
```
tSUSTA
```
```
tHIGH
tSUDAT
```
```
tSUSTO
```
Figure 14: I²C timing diagram

Table 33: I²C timings

```
Parameter Symbol Condition Min Typ Max Unit
SDI setup time tSU;DAT S&F Mode
HS mode
```
##### 160

##### 30

```
ns
ns
SDI hold time tHD;DAT S&F Mode, Cb≤100 pF
S&F Mode, Cb≤400 pF
HS mode, Cb≤100 pF
HS mode, Cb≤400 pF
```
##### 80

##### 90

##### 18

##### 24

##### 115

##### 150

```
ns
ns
ns
ns
SCK low pulse tLOW HS mode, Cb≤100 pF
VDDIO = 1.62 V
```
```
160 ns
```
```
SCK low pulse tLOW HS mode, Cb≤100 pF
VDDIO = 1.2 V
```
```
210 ns
```
The above-mentioned I^2 C specific timings correspond to the following internal added delays:

- Input delay between SDI and SCK inputs: SDI is more delayed than SCK by typically 100 ns in
    Standard and Fast Modes and by typically 20 ns in High Speed Mode.
- Output delay from SCK falling edge to SDI output propagation is typically 140 ns in Standard
    and Fast Modes and typically 70 ns in High Speed Mode.

#### 6.4.3 SPI timings

The SPI timing diagram is in Figure 15 , while the corresponding values are given in Table 34. All timings
apply both to 4- and 3-wire SPI.


```
CSB
```
```
SCK
```
```
T_setup_csb
```
```
T_low_sck T_high_sck
```
```
T_hold_csb
```
```
SDI
```
```
T_setup_sdi T_hold_sdi
SDO
```
```
T_delay_sdo
```
Figure 15: SPI timing diagram

Table 34: SPI timings

```
Parameter Symbol Condition Min Typ Max Unit
SPI clock input frequency F_spi 0 10 MHz
SCK low pulse T_low_sck 20 ns
SCK high pulse T_high_sck 20 ns
SDI setup time T_setup_sdi 20 ns
SDI hold time T_hold_sdi 20 ns
SDO output delay T_delay_sdo 25 pF load, VDDIO=1.6 V min 30 ns
SDO output delay T_delay_sdo 25 pF load, VDDIO=1.2 V min 40 ns
CSB setup time T_setup_csb 20 ns
CSB hold time T_hold_csb 20 ns
```

## 7. Pin-out and connection diagram

### 7.1 Pin-out

```
TOP VIEW
(pads not visible)
```
```
8
VDD
```
```
7
GND
```
```
6
VDDIO
```
```
5
SDO
```
```
BOTTOM VIEW
(pads visible)
```
```
1
GND
```
```
2
CSB
```
```
3
SDI
```
```
4
SCK
```
```
Pin 1
marker
```
```
1
GND
```
```
2
CSB
```
```
3
SDI
```
```
4
SCK
```
```
8
VDD
```
```
7
GND
```
```
6
VDDIO
```
```
5
SDO
```
```
Vent hole
```
Figure 16: Pin-out top and bottom view

Note: The pin numbering of BME280 is performed in the untypical clockwise direction when seen in top
view and counter-clockwise when seen in bottom view.

Table 35: Pin description

```
Pin Name I/O Type Description Connect to
SPI 4W SPI 3W I²C
1 GND Supply Ground GND
2 CSB In Chip select CSB CSB VDDIO
3 SDI In/Out Serial data input SDI SDI/SDO SDA
4 SCK In Serial clock input SCK SCK SCL
5 SDO In/Out Serial data output SDO DNC GND for
default
address
6 VDDIO Supply Digital / Interface
supply
```
##### VDDIO

```
7 GND Supply Ground GND
8 VDD Supply Analog supply VDD
```

### 7.2 Connection diagram I^2 C...........................................................................................................

```
I2C address bit 0
GND: '0'; VDDIO: '1'
```
```
TOP VIEW
(pads not visible)
```
```
8
VDD
```
```
7
GND
```
```
6
VDDIO
```
```
5
SDO
```
```
C 1
```
```
VDD VDDIO
```
```
C 2
```
```
1
GND
```
```
2
CSB
```
```
3
SDI
```
```
4
SCK
```
```
SDA
```
```
SCL
```
```
Vent hole
```
```
R 1 R 2
```
Figure 17: I²C connection diagram

Notes:

- The recommended value for C 1 , C 2 is 100 nF
- The value for the pull-up resistors R 1 , R 2 should be based on the interface timing and the bus
    load; a normal value is 4.7 kΩ
- A direct connection between CSB and VDDIO is required


### 7.3 Connection diagram 4-wire SPI

```
SDO
```
```
TOP VIEW
(pads not visible)
```
```
8
VDD
```
```
7
GND
```
```
6
VDDIO
```
```
5
SDO
```
```
C 1
```
```
VDD VDDIO
```
```
C 2
```
```
1
GND
```
```
2
CSB
```
```
3
SDI
```
```
4
SCK
```
```
SDI
```
```
SCK
```
```
CSB
```
```
Vent hole
```
Figure 18: 4-wire SPI connection diagram

Note: The recommended value for C 1 , C 2 is 100 nF


### 7.4 Connection diagram 3-wire SPI

```
TOP VIEW
(pads not visible)
```
```
8
VDD
```
```
7
GND
```
```
6
VDDIO
```
```
5
SDO
```
```
C 1
```
```
VDD VDDIO
```
```
C 2
```
```
1
GND
```
```
2
CSB
```
```
3
SDI
```
```
4
SCK
```
```
SDI/SDO
```
```
SCK
```
```
CSB
```
```
Vent hole
```
Figure 19: 3-wire SPI connection diagram

Note: The recommended value for C 1 , C 2 is 100 nF


### 7.5 Package dimensions

Figure 20: Package dimensions for top, bottom and side view


### 7.6 Landing pattern recommendation

For the design of the landing pattern, the following dimensioning is recommended:

Figure 21: Recommended landing pattern (top view)

Note: red areas demark exposed PCB metal pads.

- In case of a solder mask defined (SMD) PCB process, the land dimensions should be defined
    by solder mask openings. The underlying metal pads are larger than these openings.
- In case of a non solder mask defined (NSMD) PCB process, the land dimensions should be
    defined in the metal layer. The mask openings are larger than these metal pads.


### 7.7 Marking

#### 7.7.1 Mass production devices

Table 36: Marking of mass production parts

```
Marking Symbol Description
```
# CCC

# TL

```
5 6 7 8
```
```
4 3 2 1
```
```
Vent
hole
Pin 1
marker
```
##### CCC

```
Lot counter: 3 alphanumeric digits,
variable to generate mass production
trace-code
```
##### T

```
Product number: 1 alphanumeric digit,
fixed to identify product type, T = “U”
“U ” is associated with the product
BME280 (part number 0 273 141 185)
```
##### L

```
Sub-contractor ID: 1 alphanumeric digit,
variable to identify sub-contractor (L = “P”)
```
#### 7.7.2 Engineering samples

Table 37: Marking of engineering samples

```
Marking Symbol Description
```
# XXN

# CC

```
5 6 7 8
```
```
4 3 2 1
```
```
Vent
hole
Pin 1
marker
```
##### XX

```
Sample ID: 2 alphanumeric digits,
variable to generate trace-code
```
##### N

```
Eng. Sample ID: 1 alphanumeric digit,
fixed to identify engineering sample,
N = “ * ” or “e” or “E”
```
##### CC

```
Counter ID: 2 alphanumeric digits,
variable to generate trace-code
```

### 7.8 Soldering guidelines and reconditioning recommendations

The moisture sensitivity level of the BME280 sensors corresponds to JEDEC Level 1, see also:

- IPC/JEDEC J-STD-020C “Joint Industry Standard: Moisture/Reflow Sensitivity Classification for
    non-hermetic Solid State Surface Mount Devices”
- IPC/JEDEC J-STD-033A “Joint Industry Standard: Handling, Packing, Shipping and Use of
    Moisture/Reflow Sensitive Surface Mount Devices”.
The sensor fulfils the lead-free soldering requirements of the above-mentioned IPC/JEDEC standard,
i.e. reflow soldering with a peak temperature up to 260°C. The minimum height of the solder after
reflow shall be at least 50μm. This is required for good mechanical decoupling between the sensor
device and the printed circuit board (PCB).

Figure 22: Soldering profile


### 7.9 Reconditioning Procedure

After exposing the device to operating conditions, which exceed the limits specified in section 1.2, e.g.
after reflow, the humidity sensor may possess an additional offset. Therefore the following
reconditioning procedure is mandatory to restore the calibration state:

1. Dry-Baking: 120 °C at <5% rH for 2 h
2. Re-Hydration: 70 °C at 75% rH for 6 h

or alternatively

1. Dry-Baking: 120 °C at <5% rH for 2 h
2. Re-Hydration: 25 °C at 75% rH for 24 h

or alternatively after solder reflow only

1. Do not perform Dry-Baking
2. Ambient Re-Hydration: ~25 °C at >40% rH for >5d

### 7.10 Tape and reel specification

#### 7.10.1 Dimensions

Figure 23: Tape and Reel dimensions

Quantity per reel: 10 kpcs.


#### 7.10.2 Orientation within the reel

Figure 24: Orientation within tape


### 7.11 Mounting and assembly recommendations

In order to achieve the specified performance for you design, the following recommendations and the
“Handling, soldering & mounting instructions BME280” should be taken into consideration when
mounting a pressure sensor on a printed-circuit board (PCB):

- The clearance above the metal lid shall be 0.1mm at minimum.
- For the device housing appropriate venting needs to be provided in case the ambient pressure
    shall be measured.
- Liquids shall not come into direct contact with the device.
- During operation the sensor chip is sensitive to light, which can influence the accuracy of the
    measurement (photo-current of silicon). The position of the vent hole minimizes the light
    exposure of the sensor chip. Nevertheless, Bosch Sensortec recommends avoiding the
    exposure of BME280 to strong light sources.
- Soldering may not be done using vapor phase processes since the sensor will be damaged by
    the liquids used in these processes.

### 7.12 Environmental safety

#### 7.12.1 RoHS

The BME280 sensor meets the requirements of the EC restriction of hazardous substances (RoHS)
directive, see also:
_RoHS–Directive 2011/65/EU and its amendments, including the amendment 2015/863/EU on
the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic
equipment._

#### 7.12.2 Halogen content

The BME280 is halogen-free. For more details on the analysis results please contact your Bosch
Sensortec representative.

#### 7.12.3 Internal package structure

Within the scope of Bosch Sensortec’s ambition to improve its products and secure the mass product
supply, Bosch Sensortec qualifies additional sources (e.g. 2nd source) for the package of the BME280.

While Bosch Sensortec took care that all of the technical packages parameters are described above
are 100% identical for all sources, there can be differences in the chemical content and the internal
structural between the different package sources.

However, as secured by the extensive product qualification process of Bosch Sensortec, this has no
impact to the usage or to the quality of the BME280 product.


## 8. Appendix A: Alternative compensation formulas

### 8.1 Compensation formulas in double precision floating point

Please note that it is strongly advised to use the API available from Bosch Sensortec to perform
readout and compensation. If this is not wanted, the code below can be applied at the user’s risk. Both
pressure and temperature values are expected to be received in 20 bit format, positive, stored in a 32
bit signed integer. Humidity is expected to be received in 16 bit format, positive, stored in a 32 bit
signed integer.
The variable t_fine (signed 32 bit) carries a fine resolution temperature value over to the pressure
compensation formula and could be implemented as a global variable.
The data type “BME280_S32_t” should define a 32 bit signed integer variable type and could usually
be defined as “long signed int”. The revision of the code is rev. 1.1 (pressure and temperature) and
rev. 1.0 (humidity).
Compensating the measurement value with double precision gives the best possible accuracy but is
only recommended for PC applications.

// Returns temperature in DegC, double precision. Output value of “51.23” equals 51.23 DegC.
// t_fine carries fine temperature as global value
BME280_S32_t t_fine;
double BME280_compensate_T_double(BME280_S32_t adc_T)
{
double var1, var2, T;
var1 = (((double)adc_T)/16384.0 – ((double)dig_T1)/1024.0) * ((double)dig_T2);
var2 = ((((double)adc_T)/131072.0 – ((double)dig_T1)/8192.0) *
(((double)adc_T)/131072.0 – ((double) dig_T1)/8192.0)) * ((double)dig_T3);
t_fine = (BME280_S32_t)(var1 + var2);
T = (var1 + var2) / 5120.0;
return T;
}
// Returns pressure in Pa as double. Output value of “96386.2” equals 96386.2 Pa = 963.862 hPa
double BME280_compensate_P_double(BME280_S32_t adc_P)
{
double var1, var2, p;
var1 = ((double)t_fine/2.0) – 64000.0;
var2 = var1 * var1 * ((double)dig_P6) / 32768.0;
var2 = var2 + var1 * ((double)dig_P5) * 2.0;
var2 = (var2/4.0)+(((double)dig_P4) * 65536.0);
var1 = (((double)dig_P3) * var1 * var1 / 524288.0 + ((double)dig_P2) * var1) / 524288.0;
var1 = (1.0 + var1 / 32768.0)*((double)dig_P1);
if (var1 == 0.0)
{
return 0; // avoid exception caused by division by zero
}
p = 1048576.0 – (double)adc_P;
p = (p – (var2 / 4096.0)) * 6250.0 / var1;
var1 = ((double)dig_P9) * p * p / 2147483648.0;
var2 = p * ((double)dig_P8) / 32768.0;
p = p + (var1 + var2 + ((double)dig_P7)) / 16.0;
return p;
}
// Returns humidity in %rH as as double. Output value of “46.332” represents
46.332 %rH
double bme280_compensate_H_double(BME280_S32_t adc_H);
{
double var_H;

var_H = (((double)t_fine) – 76800.0);
var_H = (adc_H – (((double)dig_H4) * 64.0 + ((double)dig_H5) / 16384.0 *
var_H)) * (((double)dig_H2) / 65536.0 * (1.0 + ((double)dig_H6) /
67108864.0 * var_H *
(1.0 + ((double)dig_H3) / 67108864.0 * var_H)));
var_H = var_H * (1.0 – ((double)dig_H1) * var_H / 524288.0);

if (var_H > 100.0)
var_H = 100.0;
else if (var_H < 0.0)
var_H = 0.0;
return var_H;
}


### 8.2 Pressure compensation in 32 bit fixed point

Please note that it is strongly advised to use the API available from Bosch Sensortec to perform
readout and compensation. If this is not wanted, the code below can be applied at the user’s risk. Both
pressure and temperature values are expected to be received in 20 bit format, positive, stored in a 32
bit signed integer.
The variable t_fine (signed 32 bit) carries a fine resolution temperature value over to the pressure
compensation formula and could be implemented as a global variable.
The data type “BME280_S32_t” should define a 32 bit signed integer variable type and can usually be
defined as “long signed int”.
The data type “BME280_U32_t” should define a 32 bit unsigned integer variable type and can usually
be defined as “long unsigned int”.
Compensating the pressure value with 32 bit integer has an accuracy of typically 1 Pa (1-sigma). At
high filter levels this adds a significant amount of noise to the output values and reduces their
resolution.

// Returns temperature in DegC, resolution is 0.01 DegC. Output value of “5123” equals 51.23
DegC.
// t_fine carries fine temperature as global value
BME280_S32_t t_fine;
BME280_S32_t BME280_compensate_T_int32(BME280_S32_t adc_T)
{
BME280_S32_t var1, var2, T;
var1 = ((((adc_T>>3) – ((BME280_S32_t)dig_T1<<1))) * ((BME280_S32_t)dig_T2)) >> 11;
var2 = (((((adc_T>>4) – ((BME280_S32_t)dig_T1)) * ((adc_T>>4) – ((BME280_S32_t)dig_T1)))
>> 12) *
((BME280_S32_t)dig_T3)) >> 14;
t_fine = var1 + var2;
T = (t_fine * 5 + 128) >> 8;
return T;
}

// Returns pressure in Pa as unsigned 32 bit integer. Output value of “96386” equals 96386 Pa
= 963.86 hPa
BME280_U32_t BME280_compensate_P_int32(BME280_S32_t adc_P)
{
BME280_S32_t var1, var2;
BME280_U32_t p;
var1 = (((BME280_S32_t)t_fine)>>1) – (BME280_S32_t)64000;
var2 = (((var1>>2) * (var1>>2)) >> 11 ) * ((BME280_S32_t)dig_P6);
var2 = var2 + ((var1*((BME280_S32_t)dig_P5))<<1);
var2 = (var2>>2)+(((BME280_S32_t)dig_P4)<<16);
var1 = (((dig_P3 * (((var1>>2) * (var1>>2)) >> 13 )) >> 3) + ((((BME280_S32_t)dig_P2) *
var1)>>1))>>18;
var1 =((((32768+var1))*((BME280_S32_t)dig_P1))>>15);
if (var1 == 0)
{
return 0; // avoid exception caused by division by zero
}
p = (((BME280_U32_t)(((BME280_S32_t)1048576)-adc_P)-(var2>>12)))*3125;
if (p < 0x80000000)
{
p = (p << 1) / ((BME280_U32_t)var1);
}
else
{
p = (p / (BME280_U32_t)var1) * 2;
}
var1 = (((BME280_S32_t)dig_P9) * ((BME280_S32_t)(((p>>3) * (p>>3))>>13)))>>12;
var2 = (((BME280_S32_t)(p>>2)) * ((BME280_S32_t)dig_P8))>>13;
p = (BME280_U32_t)((BME280_S32_t)p + ((var1 + var2 + dig_P7) >> 4));
return p;
}


## 9. Appendix B: Measurement time and current calculation

In this chapter, formulas are given to calculate measurement rate, filter bandwidth and current
consumption in different settings.

### 9.1 Measurement time

The active measurement time depends on the selected values for humidity, temperature and pressure
oversampling and can be calculated in milliseconds using the formulas below.

```
𝑡𝑡𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚,𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡= 1 +[ 2 ⋅𝑇𝑇_𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜]𝑜𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚_𝑡𝑡≠0+[ 2 ⋅𝑃𝑃_𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜+ 0.5]𝑜𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚_𝑡𝑡≠0
+[ 2 ⋅𝐻𝐻_𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜+ 0.5]𝑜𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚_ℎ≠0
```
```
𝑡𝑡𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚,𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚= 1.25+[2.3⋅𝑇𝑇_𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜]𝑜𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚_𝑡𝑡≠0+[2.3⋅𝑃𝑃_𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜+ 0.575]𝑜𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚_𝑡𝑡≠0
+[2.3⋅𝐻𝐻_𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜+ 0.575]𝑜𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚_ℎ≠0
```
For example, using temperature oversampling ×1, pressure oversampling ×4 and no humidity
measurement, the measurement time is:

```
𝑡𝑡𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚,𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡= 1 +[ 2 ⋅ 1 ]+[ 2 ⋅4 + 0.5]+ [0] = 11 .5 ms
```
```
𝑡𝑡𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚,𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚= 1.25+[2.3⋅ 1 ]+[2.3⋅4 + 0. 575 ]+ [0] = 13 .325 ms
```
### 9.2 Measurement rate in forced mode

In forced mode, the measurement rate depends on the rate at which it is forced by the master. The
highest possible frequency in Hz can be calculated as:

##### 𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂 𝑅𝑅𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚 𝑚𝑚,𝑓𝑓𝑜𝑜𝑓𝑓𝑚𝑚𝑓𝑓=

##### 1000

##### 𝑡𝑡𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚^

If measurements are forced faster than they can be executed, the data rate saturates at the attainable
data rate. For the example above with 11.5 ms measurement time, the typically achievable output data
rate would be:

```
𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂 𝑅𝑅𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚 𝑚𝑚,𝑓𝑓𝑜𝑜𝑓𝑓𝑚𝑚𝑓𝑓=
```
##### 1000

##### 11 .5

```
= 87 Hz
```
### 9.3 Measurement rate in normal mode..........................................................................................

The measurement rate in normal mode depends on the measurement time and the standby time and
can be calculated in Hz using the following formula:

##### 𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂 𝑅𝑅𝑛𝑛 𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑜𝑜 𝑛𝑛_𝑚𝑚𝑜𝑜𝑓𝑓𝑚𝑚=

##### 1000

##### 𝑡𝑡𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚+𝑡𝑡𝑚𝑚𝑡𝑡𝑚𝑚𝑛𝑛𝑓𝑓𝑠𝑠𝑡𝑡

The accuracy of tstandby is described in the specification parameter Δtstandby. For the example above with
11.5 ms measurement time, setting normal mode with a standby time of 62.5 ms would result in a data
rate of:

```
𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂 𝑅𝑅𝑛𝑛 𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑜𝑜 𝑛𝑛_𝑚𝑚𝑜𝑜𝑓𝑓𝑚𝑚=
```
##### 1000

##### 11 .5 + 62 .5

```
= 13 .51 Hz
```

### 9.4 Response time using IIR filter

When using the IIR filter, the response time of the sensor depends on the selected filter coefficient and
the data rate used. It can be calculated using the following formula:

##### 𝑡𝑡𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑡𝑡𝑜𝑜𝑛𝑛𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚, 75%=

##### 1000 ⋅𝑜𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑡𝑡𝑛𝑛𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚, 75%

##### 𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂 𝑅𝑅

For the example above with a data rate of 13.51 Hz, the user could select a filter coefficient of 8.
According to Table 6 , the number of samples needed to reach 75% of a step response using this filter
setting is 11. The response time with filter is therefore:

##### 𝑡𝑡𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑡𝑡𝑜𝑜𝑛𝑛𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚, 75%=

##### 1000 ⋅ 11

##### 13 .51

```
= 814 ms
```
### 9.5 Current consumption

The current consumption depends on the selected oversampling settings, the measurement rate and
the sensor mode, but not on the IIR filter setting. It can be calculated as:

##### 𝐼𝐼𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷,𝑓𝑓𝑜𝑜𝑚𝑚 𝑓𝑓𝑚𝑚𝑓𝑓=𝐼𝐼𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷⋅( 1 −𝑡𝑡𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚⋅𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂 𝑅𝑅)+

##### 𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂 𝑅𝑅

##### 1000

##### ⋅� 205 +𝐼𝐼𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷⋅[ 2 ⋅𝑇𝑇_𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜]𝑜𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚_𝑡𝑡≠0+𝐼𝐼𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷⋅[ 2 ⋅𝑃𝑃_𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜+0.5]𝑜𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚_𝑡𝑡≠0

##### +𝐼𝐼𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷⋅[ 2 ⋅𝐻𝐻_𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜+0.5]𝑜𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚_ℎ≠0�

##### 𝐼𝐼𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷,𝑛𝑛𝑜𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑛𝑛=𝐼𝐼𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷⋅( 1 −𝑡𝑡𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚⋅𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂 𝑅𝑅)+

##### 𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂 𝑅𝑅

##### 1000

##### ⋅� 205 +𝐼𝐼𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷⋅[ 2 ⋅𝑇𝑇_𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜]𝑜𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚_𝑡𝑡≠0+𝐼𝐼𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷⋅[ 2 ⋅𝑃𝑃_𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜+0.5]𝑜𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚_𝑡𝑡≠0

##### +𝐼𝐼𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷⋅[ 2 ⋅𝐻𝐻_𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜+0.5]𝑜𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚_ℎ≠0�

Note that the only difference between forced and normal mode current consumption is that the current
for the inactive time is either IDDSL or IDDSB. For the example above, the current would be

##### 𝐼𝐼𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷,𝑛𝑛𝑜𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚 𝑚𝑚𝑛𝑛=0.2⋅( 1 −0.0115 ⋅ 13.51)+

##### 13 .51

##### 1000

##### ( 205 + 350 ⋅[ 2 ⋅ 1 ]+ 714 ⋅[ 2 ⋅4 +0.5]+[ 0 ])

##### =0.2⋅(0.845)+

##### 13 .51

##### 1000

##### ( 205 + 700 + 6069 + 0 )

```
=0.2+ 94 .2= 94 .4 μA
```

## 10. Self test

The following chapter provides an explanation to the self-test code for the Bosch Sensortec BME280.
The code itself refers to the API (Application Programming Interface) of the sensor, which can be
obtained from Bosch Sensortec and is also included in this release package.

### 10.1 Self-test flow

The self-test starts by performing a soft reset of the device. After this, Chip-ID and trimming data are
read and verified. Then temperature and pressure are measured and compared against customisable
plausibility limits. A flow chart is given below.

Figure 25: Self-test flow chart


### 10.2 Function return codes

A list of the possible function return codes can be found below.

0 Sensor OK
10 Communication error or wrong device found
20 Trimming data out of bound
30 Temperature bond wire failure or MEMS defect
31 Pressure bond wire failure or MEMS defect
40 Implausible temperature (default limits: 0...40°C)
41 Implausible pressure (default limits: 900...1100 hPa)
42 Implausible humidity (default limits: 20...80 %rH)

Error testing is done in ascending error code sequence. This means that if e.g. a trimming data error is
detected (code 20), the temperature plausibility (code 40) is not checked anymore. Instead, error code
20 is returned and no others tests are performed.


### 10.3 Usage

#### 10.3.1 File and function pointer integration

 Include bme280.c in your programming environment and add the path to the compiler.
 Include bme280_selftest.c in your programming environment and add the path to the compiler.
 Modify the lines with read/write function pointer to match your system. Sample functions are given
in chapter 10.5:

bme280.bus_read = BME280_I2C_bus_read; // must be defined by customer
bme280.bus_write = BME280_I2C_bus_write; // must be defined by customer
bme280.delay_msec = BME280_delay_msec; // must be defined by customer

 If necessary, adapt the measurement plausibility limits in bme280_selftest.h. The default limits are
0...40°C for temperature and 900...1100 hPa for pressure measurement.
 If you are using I²C communication with the address 0x77 (SDO pin high), then change the
BME280.h line
_#define BME280_I2C_ADDRESS BME280_I2C_ADDRESS1_
into
#define BME280_I2C_ADDRESS BME280_I2C_ADDRESS2

#### 10.3.2 Function call

Call the self test function using:

unsigned char testresult;
testresult = bme280_selftest();

A test result of 0 indicates no error. The other return codes are detailed in chapter 10.2.

#### 10.3.3 Test time and interface requirements

The self test uses a total wait time of 9 milliseconds. Of this, 2 milliseconds are used as wait time for
soft reset and 7 milliseconds are used as wait time for conversion. The soft reset is performed in order
to erase any possible old settings and could be omitted if the sensor is known to be in an untouched
state after power on.

In the self test function, 4 write commands and 6 read commands are issued. In total, 4 bytes are
written and 34 bytes are read. Assuming burst read is used, the following time duration can be
expected for communication including overhead:
 6.0 ms for I²C at 100 kHz
 1.5 ms for I²C at 400 kHz
 0.5 ms for SPI at 1 MHz

Assuming a 400 kHz I²C interface with burst reads, the total function run time therefore equals 10.5
milliseconds.


### 10.4 Function explanation

#### 10.4.1 Communication test

This function attempts to read the Chip ID. If it is correct, a functioning communication is assumed.
Note that the write function functionality is not explicitly tested.

#### 10.4.2 Bond wire test

A pressure and temperature measurement is performed and uncompensated pressure and
temperature values are read out. If the measurement results are clipped to the respective minimum or
maximum ADC values, this is usually caused by defective bond wires. However, a defective sensing
element could also cause this test to fail.
Please note that some combinations of bond wire or sensing element defects do not result in clipping
of the measurement value and will therefore not be detected with this test. These cases can be
detected by the plausibility test instead.

#### 10.4.3 Measurement plausibility test

The pressure and temperature values read out previously are compensated using the read out
compensation parameters. The compensated temperature and pressure is compared against
plausibility limits set in bme280_selftest.h, which must be set to match the customer production
environment. Please use the the plausibility limits as described in chapter 3.


### 10.5 Sample read, write and delay function

Below some samples read, write and delay functions are given. These are platform dependant and
should only give an idea of how the functions could look.

signed char BME280_I2C_bus_read(unsigned char device_addr, unsigned char
reg_addr, unsigned char *reg_data, unsigned char cnt)
{
int iError=0;
unsigned char array[I2C_BUFFER_LEN];
unsigned char stringpos;
array[0] = reg_addr;
iError = I2C_write_read_string(I2C0, device_addr, array, array, 1, cnt);
for(stringpos=0;stringpos<cnt;stringpos++)
{
*(reg_data + stringpos) = array[stringpos];
}
return (signed char)iError;
}

signed char BME280_I2C_bus_write(unsigned char device_addr, unsigned char
reg_addr, unsigned char *reg_data, unsigned char cnt)
{
int iError=0;
unsigned char array[I2C_BUFFER_LEN];
unsigned char stringpos;
array[0] = reg_addr;
for(stringpos=0;stringpos<cnt;stringpos++)
{
array[stringpos+1] = *(reg_data + stringpos);
}
iError = I2C_write_string(I2C0, device_addr, array, cnt+1);
return (signed char)iError;
}

void BME280_delay_msec(BME280_U16_t msec) //delay in milliseconds
{
BME280_U32_t counter;
for (counter = 0; counter/2000 < msec; counter++); // 2000 counts = 1
msec
}


## 11. Legal disclaimer

### 11.1 Engineering samples

Engineering Samples are marked with an asterisk (*), (E) or (e). Samples may vary from the valid
technical specifications of the product series contained in this data sheet. They are therefore not
intended or fit for resale to third parties or for use in end products. Their sole purpose is internal client
testing. The testing of an engineering sample may in no way replace the testing of a product series.
Bosch Sensortec assumes no liability for the use of engineering samples. The Purchaser shall indemnify
Bosch Sensortec from all claims arising from the use of engineering samples.

### 11.2 Product use..............................................................................................................................

Bosch Sensortec products are developed for the consumer goods industry. They may only be used
within the parameters of this product data sheet. They are not fit for use in life-sustaining or safety-
critical systems. Safety-critical systems are those for which a malfunction is expected to lead to bodily
harm, death or severe property damage. In addition, they shall not be used directly or indirectly for
military purposes (including but not limited to nuclear, chemical or biological proliferation of weapons or
development of missile technology), nuclear power, deep sea or space applications (including but not
limited to satellite technology).

Bosch Sensortec products are released on the basis of the legal and normative requirements relevant
to the Bosch Sensortec product for use in the following geographical target market: BE, BG, DK, DE,
EE, FI, FR, GR, IE, IT, HR, LV, LT, LU, MT, NL, AT, PL, PT, RO, SE, SK, SI, ES, CZ, HU, CY, US, CN,
JP, KR, TW. If you need further information or have further requirements, please contact your local sales
contact.

The resale and/or use of Bosch Sensortec products are at the purchaser’s own risk and his own
responsibility. The examination of fitness for the intended use is the sole responsibility of the purchaser.

The purchaser shall indemnify Bosch Sensortec from all third party claims arising from any product use
not covered by the parameters of this product data sheet or not approved by Bosch Sensortec and
reimburse Bosch Sensortec for all costs in connection with such claims.

The purchaser accepts the responsibility to monitor the market for the purchased products, particularly
with regard to product safety, and to inform Bosch Sensortec without delay of all safety-critical incidents.

### 11.3 Application examples and hints

With respect to any examples or hints given herein, any typical values stated herein and/or any
information regarding the application of the device, Bosch Sensortec hereby disclaims any and all
warranties and liabilities of any kind, including without limitation warranties of non-infringement of
intellectual property rights or copyrights of any third party. The information given in this document shall
in no event be regarded as a guarantee of conditions or characteristics. They are provided for illustrative
purposes only and no evaluation regarding infringement of intellectual property rights or copyrights or
regarding functionality, performance or error has been made.


## 12. Document history and modification

```
Rev. No Page Description of modification/changes Date
0.1 Document creation 2012 - 11 - 06
1.0 Final datasheet 2014 - 11 - 12
```
```
1.1 48
Updated RoHS directive to 2011/65/EU effective 8
June 2011 2015-05-^07
1.2 2, 3 Adjusted target devices, applications 2015 - 10 - 15
1.4 Minor corrections 2018 - 01 - 17
1.5 Template update 2018 - 09 - 17
1.8 Chapter 10 Updated legal disclaimer 2020 - 03 - 12
1.9 Chapter 10 Update disclaimer 2020 - 11 - 23
1.10 Chapter 10 New added chapter self-test disclaimer now 11 2021 - 03 - 18
1.21 Chapter 1.4 New typical accuracy 2021 - 07 - 22
1.22 Chapter 7.12 Update of ROHS directive 2021 - 10 - 22
1.23 1.4 Final Temperature spec 2022 - 01 - 22
1.24 Chapter 2 Remove condensation 2024 - 02 - 20
```

**Bosch Sensortec GmbH**
Gerhard-Kindler-Straße 9
72770 Reutlingen / Germany

contact@bosch-sensortec.com
[http://www.bosch-sensortec.com](http://www.bosch-sensortec.com)

Modifications reserved
Document number: BST-BME280-DS001-24
Revision_1.24_02202 4


